# Practical exercise 02 - Stack and Queue

Note:  You can select and do some options according to your ability only. We would like to note you that the more questions you do the better for you in doing final practical  and writing exams.

Minimum required points: 20

## Question 1. (5)
Write a Java program to implement a stack of integer values using LinkedList to develop with the following operations :

1. `boolean isEmpty()` - return true if the stack is empty and false otherwise.
2. `void clear()` - clear the stack.

3. `void push(int x)` - insert  a node with value  x  at the top of  the stack.
4. `int pop()` - remove the top element on the stack and return it's value; throw EmptyStackException for empty stack.
5. `int top()` -  return value of a node at the top of the stack; throw EmptyStackException for empty stack.
6. `void traverse()` - display all values in the stack from the top to the bottom.
7. Use a stack to convert an integer number in decimal system to binary system and display on the screen.
Note: You can write some constructors and other methods as you see they are necessary.

## Question 2. (5)
Write a Java program to implement a queue of integer values using LinkedList to develop  with the following operations:
1. `boolean isEmpty()` - return true if the queue is empty and false otherwise.
2. `void clear()` - clear the queue.
3. `void enqueue(int x)` - insert  a node with value  x  at the end of  the queue.
4. `int dequeue()` - remove the first element on the queue and return it's value; throw Exception for empty queue.
5. `int first()` -  return value of  the first node of the queue; throw Exception for empty queue.
4. `void traverse()` - display all values in the queue from the front to the rear.
6. Use a queue to convert a real number less than 1  in decimal system to binary system and display on the screen.
Note: You can write some constructors and other methods as you see they are necessary.

## Question 3. (10)
Modify programs in question 1  using Array data structure to develop

## Question 4.  (10)
Modify programs in question 2  using Array data structure to develop

## Question 5. (5)
Modify programs in questions 1 and 2 so that elements in the stack and queue are Object types and write the Main class to test them (e.g. stack and queue contains computer names).