# Writing exercise 02 - Stack and Queue

Note:  You can select and do some questions according to your ability only. We would like to note you that the more questions you do the better for you in doing final practical  and writing exams.

Minimum required points: 10

## Question 1 (2)

Assume that x, y, z are integer variables and that s is a stack of integers, state the output of each program fragment.
```
x = 3;y = 5;z = 2;
s.makeEmpty( );
s.push(x);s.push(4);s.pop();
s.push(y);s.push(3); s.push(z);
s.pop();s.push(2);s.push(x);
while(! s.isEmpty( )) System.out.println(s.pop() + "  ");
```
## Question 2 (2)
Assume that x, y are integer variables and that s is a stack of integers, state the output of each program fragment.

```
x = 3; y = 1;
s.makeEmpty();
s.push(5);s.push(7);s.pop();
x += y;
s.pop();
s.push(x);s.push(y); s.push(2);s.pop();s.pop();
while (! s.isEmpty( ))
{
y = s.pop();
System.out.println(y);
}
System.out.println("x = " + x);
System.out.println("y = " + y);
```
## Question 3 (2)
A letter means push and an asterisk means pop in the  following sequence.  Give the sequence of values returned by the pop operations  when this sequence of operations is performed on an initially empty stack.
```
E A S * Y * Q U E * * S T * I O * N * * *
```
## Question 4 (2)
A letter means push and an asterisk means pop in the following sequence.  Give the contents of s[0], ..., s[4] after  this sequence of operations is performed on an initially empty stack (the stack is implementated by array s[]).
```
L A * S T I * N * F I R * S T * O U * T * * * *
```
## Question 5 (2)
A letter means enqueue and an asterisk means dequeue in the  following sequence.  Give the sequence of values returned by the dequeue operation when this sequence of operations is performed on an initially empty queue.

```
E A S * Y * Q U E * * S T * * I O * N * *
```
## Question 6 (2)
6.A letter means enqueue and an asterisk means dequeue in the following sequence.  Give the contents of q[0], ..., q[4] after  this sequence of operations is performed on an initially empty queue (the queue is implementated by circular array q[] with size 5).

```
E A S * Y * Q U E * S T * * I O * N * *
```

## Question 7 (2)
Shows all steps of push and pop of a stack for the following formula calculation

2 * 23 + 6 - 7 * 8

## Question 8 (2) 
Show all steps of push and pop of a stack for validating the following html code
```
<html>
    <head>
    </head>
    <body>
        <h1>
            Hello
        </h1>
    </body>
</html>
```