# Exercise 03 - Recursion

Note:  You can select and do some questions according to your ability only. We would like to note you that the more questions you do the better for you in doing final practical  and writing exams.

Minimum required points: 40

## Writing exercises

## Question 1. (5)   

Give the sequence of argument values that result when the following program is invoked for each of the integers 1 through 9.

```
int puzzle(int n){
     if (n == 1) return 1;
        if (n % 2 == 0)
            return puzzle(n/2);
        else
            return puzzle(3*n+1);
}
```

## Question 2. (5)  

Use the following function puzzle(..) to answer problems 2.1 - 2.3.

```
int puzzle(int base, int limit) { //base and limit are nonnegative numbers
    if (base > limit)
        return(-1);
    else if(base == limit)
        return 1;
    else
        return(base * puzzle(base + 1, limit));
 }
```
2.1  Identify the base case(s) of function puzzle(..)
2.2  Identify the recursive case(s) of function puzzle(..)
2.3  Show what would be displayed by the following calls.
a. System.out.print(puzzle(14,10));
b. System.out.print(puzzle(4,7));
c. System.out.print(puzzle(0,0));

## Question 3. (2.5) 
Show the output that will be displayed by the call show(123);

```
void show(int n){ 
    if(n>0) show(n/10);
    System.out.print((n%10));

}
```

## Question 4. (2.5)   
Show the output that will be displayed by the call show(134);

```
void show(int n)
  { System.out.print(n%10);
     if(n>0) show(n/10);
  }
```
## Question 5. (2.5)
Show the output that will be displayed by the call show(145);
```
void show( int n)
 { System.out.print((n%10));
    if(n>0) show(n/10);
    System.out.print((n%10));
  }
```
## Question 6. (2.5)

Complete the Java code to recursively evaluate the sum: sum = 1 + 1/2 + 1/3 +...+1/n, n >= 1.

```
double sum(int n)              // n>=1
{
    if (___________)
    return _____________;

            return ______ + sum(______);
}  
```         

## Question 7. (5)   

Consider the following recursive function.

```
int mystery(int a, int b) { 
    if (b == 0)
        return 0;
    else if (b % 2 == 0)
        return mystery(a+a, b/2);
    else
        return (mystery(a+a, b/2) + a);}
```
 

a. What values of  a and b  are directly handled by the stopping (base) case?

b. What are the values of mystery(2, 25) and mystery(3, 11)? Given positive integers a and b,describe what value mystery(a, b) computes. Answer the same question, but replace + with *.

c. For the call  mystery(3, 7), how many calls to mystery will be made, including the original call?

## Question 8. (2.5)

Consider the following recursive function.

```
void ex237(int n){ 
    if (n <= 0) return;
    System.out.println(n);
    ex237(n-2);
    ex237(n-3);
    System.out.println(n);
}
```
Give the sequence of integers printed by a call to ex237(6).

## Question 9. (2.5)  

Consider the following recursive function:

String ex238(int n)
{
   if (n <= 0) return "";
    return (ex238(n-3) + n + ex238(n-2) + n);
}

Give the value of ex238(6).

## Question 10. (2.5)

Prove by induction that the minimum possible number of moves needed to solve the towers of Hanoi satisfies the same recurrence as the number of moves used by our recursive solution.

## Practical exercises
Write Java programs to perfom the following tasks:

## Question 1. (5)
Write a recursive function that computes the sum of all numbers from 1 to n, where n is given as parameter.
```
//return the sum 1+ 2+ 3+ ...+ n
int sum(int n)
```

## Question 2. (5)

Write a recursive function that determines whether a string is a palindrome. The string a is palindrome if it is the same as its reverse.

```
boolean isPalindrome(String str)
```

## Question 3. (10)
Write a program to draw Kock snowflake using turtle library. (see sample in the lecture)

## Question 4. (10)
Write a program to draw the binary tree using turtle library (see sample in the lecture)


## Question 5. (5)

Write a recursive function that searches for a target in a sorted array using binay search, where the array, its size and the target are given as parameters.

## Question 6. (5)

Implement Fibonacci recursively as f

```
f(0) = 1
f(1) = 1
f(n) = f(n-1) + f(n-2) when n> 1
```

## Question 7. (5)

Write recursive method addReciprocals that takes an integer as a parameter and returns the sum of the first n reciprocals.

```
addReciprocals(n) returns (1.0 + 1.0/2.0 + 1.0/3.0 + 1.0/4.0 + ... + 1.0/n).
```
## Question 8. (5) 

Stirling numbers: A stirling number of the first kind is defined as follows

```
s(0,0) = 1
s(n,0) = 0, for all n > 0
s(n+1,k) = s(n,k-1) - n*s(n,k), for all n ≥0 and k>0
```
Write a recursive routine to calculate stirling numbers of the first kind.

